feat: add `Manage Users` documentation to jenkins.io (#7923)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/book/managing/users.adoc

---
layout: section
title: Users
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:description: Learn how to manage users in Jenkins, including creating, configuring, and understanding user management.
:author:
:sectanchors:
:toc:
:toclevels: 4
:hide-uri-scheme:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
endif::[]

= Users

Managing users in Jenkins involves creating, configuring, and maintaining user accounts for individuals who interact with the Jenkins instance. This page provides a step-by-step guide on how to manage users effectively.

> == What Managing Users Means

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== What managing users means
```
Suggestion to use sentence case for section headers.

In Jenkins, managing users refers to the process of creating, configuring, and maintaining user accounts. This includes:

- Creating new users.

> - Configuring user details (e.g., full name, email address, password).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Configuring user details such as full name, email address, and password.
```
Suggestion to replace `e.g.` with `such as`. [e.g should be avoided when creating documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/e/eg)

- Modifying user information.
- Deleting users.

Administrators with the appropriate permissions can perform these actions.

> == Accessing the Manage Users Page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Accessing the users page
```
Adjusting for sentence casing and the page name would just be "users" since the setting title has changed.

To manage users in Jenkins, you need to have administrative privileges. Follow these steps to access the user management section:

. Log in to your Jenkins instance with an account that has administrative permissions.
+
. Navigate to the **Manage Jenkins** page from the Jenkins dashboard.
+
image::managing/manager-users-home-page.png[Accessing Manage Jenkins page,width=600]

> . Click on **Users** under the **Security** section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select **Users** under the **Security** section.
```
Suggestion to use `select` instead of `click`.

+
image::managing/select-users.png[Accessing the Users section,width=600]

> == Creating a User

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Creating a user
```
Suggestion to use sentence case in section header.

To create a new user in Jenkins:

> . On the **Users** page, click on the **Create User** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the **Users** page, select **Create User**.
```
Suggestion to use select instead of click. Adjust some of the wording to be more direct/[not use button](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/b/button).

+
image::managing/create-users-click.png[Accessing the Create User button,width=600]

. Fill in the required details:
   - **Username**: A unique identifier for the user.
   - **Password**: A secure password for the user.
   - **Confirm Password**: Re-enter the password.
   - **Full Name**: The full name of the user.
   - **Email Address**: The email address of the user.
+
image::managing/create-users.png[Accessing the Create User Page,width=600]

> . Click **Create User** to save the new user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select **Create User** to save the new user.
```
Same as above, suggestion to use select instead of click.

+
For example:
+
image::managing/create-users-example.png[Create User Page Example,width=600]

> == Configuring User Settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configuring user settings
```
Suggestion to use sentence case.

Once a user is created, you can configure their settings:

> . On the **Manage Users** page, click on the user you want to configure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the **Manage Users** page, select the user you want to configure.
```
Suggestion to use select instead of click.

+
. Update the following details as needed:
   - **Full Name**: Edit the user's full name.
   - **Description**: Update the user's description.
   - **Credentials**: Change the user's credentials.
+
image::managing/account-preference.png[Configure page,width=600]

> . Click **Save** to apply the changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select **Save** to apply the changes.
```
Suggestion to use select instead of click.

+
image::managing/select-user.png[Configuring User page,width=600]

> == Modifying User Information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Modifying user information
```
Suggestion to use sentence style capitalization for section headers.

Administrators can modify user information at any time:

. Navigate to the **Manage Users** page.
+

> . Click on the user whose information you want to modify.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the user whose information you want to modify.
```
Suggestion to use select instead of click.

+

> . Update the relevant fields (e.g., full name, email address, password).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Update the relevant fields such as full name, email address, or password.
```
Suggestion to replace `e.g.` with `such as`.

+

> . Click **Save** to apply the changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select **Save** to apply the changes.
```
Suggestion to use select instead of click.

+

> == Deleting a User

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Deleting a user
```
Sentence style capitalization for section headers.

To remove a user from Jenkins:

> . Navigate to **Manage Users**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Navigate to **Users**.
```
Suggestion to update the page name since it is now "Users".

+
. Find the user you want to delete.
+
. Click on the **Delete** button next to the user’s name.
+
image::managing/delete-users.png[Deleting User,width=600]

. Confirm the deletion.
+

> ⚠️ **Note:** Deleting a user **permanently removes their account** from Jenkins. Make sure they don't have active jobs or responsibilities before proceeding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WARNING: Deleting a user **permanently removes their account** from Jenkins. Make sure they don't have active jobs or responsibilities before proceeding.
```
Suggestion to use asciidoc note to flag this.

> == Linking to Security Settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Linking to security settings
```
Suggestion to use sentence capitalization for section headers.

> User management is closely tied to Jenkins' security settings. For more information on configuring permissions and authorization, refer to the link:../managing/security.adoc#authorization[Managing Security - Authorization] documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
User management is closely tied to Jenkins' security settings. For more information on configuring permissions and authorization, refer to the link:/doc/book/security/access-control/permissions/[Access Control - Permissions] documentation.
```
The link currently configured does not lead to an actual page, this should leader to the Permissions page of access control, which would fit with the described content.

- Modifying user information.
- Deleting users.

Administrators with the appropriate permissions can perform these actions.

== Accessing the users page

To manage users in Jenkins, you need to have administrative privileges. Follow these steps to access the user management section:

. Log in to your Jenkins instance with an account that has administrative permissions.
+
. Navigate to the **Manage Jenkins** page from the Jenkins dashboard.
+
image::managing/manager-users-home-page.png[Accessing Manage Jenkins page,width=800]

. Select **Users** under the **Security** section.
+
image::managing/select-users.png[Accessing the Users section,width=800]

== Creating a user

To create a new user in Jenkins:

. On the **Users** page, select **Create User**.
+
image::managing/create-users-click.png[Accessing the Create User button,width=800]

. Fill in the required details:
   - **Username**: A unique identifier for the user.
   - **Password**: A secure password for the user.
   - **Confirm Password**: Re-enter the password.
   - **Full Name**: The full name of the user.
   - **Email Address**: The email address of the user.
+

> image::managing/create-users.png[Accessing the Create User Page,width=800]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image::managing/create-users.png[Accessing the Create User Page,width=700]
```
Suggesting 700 as the width because the content of the image appears much larger on the page compared to the other screenshots.

. Select **Create User** to save the new user.
+
For example:
+

> image::managing/create-users-example.png[Create User Page Example,width=800]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image::managing/create-users-example.png[Create User Page Example,width=700]
```
Same as above with this image, let's try shrinking it just a bit to see if it helps with the appearance on the page.

== Configuring user settings

Once a user is created, you can configure their settings:

. On the **Manage Users** page, select the user you want to configure.

> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
image::managing/select-user.png[Configuring User page,width=800]
```

. Update the following details as needed:
   - **Full Name**: Edit the user's full name.
   - **Description**: Update the user's description.
   - **Credentials**: Change the user's credentials.
+
image::managing/account-preference.png[Configure page,width=800]

. Select **Save** to apply the changes.
+

> image::managing/select-user.png[Configuring User page,width=800]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This should be moved up above line 76

> +
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

== Modifying user information

Administrators can modify user information at any time:

. Navigate to the **Manage Users** page.
+
. Select the user whose information you want to modify.
+
. Update the relevant fields such as full name, email address, or password.
+
. Select **Save** to apply the changes.

== Deleting a user

To remove a user from Jenkins, there are two approaches. Let’s explore both of them:

=== First approach

. Navigate to **Users**.
+
. Find the user you want to delete.
+

> . Click on the **Delete** button next to the user’s name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the **Delete** option next to the user’s name.
```
Suggestion to adjust syntax from click to select.

+

> image::managing/delete-users.png[Deleting User,width=800]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image::managing/delete-users.png[Deleting User,width=700]
```
Same as other image comments above.

+

. Confirm the deletion.

=== Second approach

. Navigate to **Manage Jenkins**.
+
. Then navigate to **Users**.
+
. Select the trash icon on the right-most side of the user you want to delete.
+

> image::managing/delete-user-alternative.png[Deleting User Alternative,width=800]

Reviewer: This image needs to be replaced with one that is freshly captured. The red box from the previous version of this screenshot is still visible and the UI appears incorrectly as a result of the image modification.
